---
layout: page
title: Welcome to the blogish site of Cmdr Electrosheep!
permalink: /intro/
---

Hey guys, my name is Michael DeGraw, or Electrosheep as I like to call myself online. In case you're wondering, which you weren't, I'm not creative enough to come up with such an awesome screen name on my own, so I stole it from my brother David, or Strgzr as he likes to call himself online (I think).

I'm a jack of all trades, master of none. I frequently have visions of grandeur, which normally last until I realize what I'm trying to do is hard. I wanted to make a Quest for Glory mod for Skyrim, and all was going well (I managed to semi apply the bound sword effect to a silver sword with a semi custom skin), but my dreams were dashed when I realized I couldn't make, or at least figure out how to make, a new school of magic.

When Blizzard released Warcraft III assets for the Starcraft 2 editor, I figured, "How rad would that be to make an updated version of the orginal Warcraft: Orcs and Humans???" My dreams were dashed when I realized that creating modifiied resources, new races, new units, buildings, upgrades, etc. takes an advanced degree in wizardry from the Hogwars school for aspiring witches and wizards (tragically, my application to Hogwarts was denied, on the grounds that I, in fact, possess no magical abilities of any kind).

Back in the day, I was mildly interested in the PSP (Playstation Portable) hacking scene. Therefore, I took it upon myself to learn a little bit of MIPS (Microprocessor without interlocked pipeline stages) assembly. For those of you savvy to that sort of thing, the MIPS processor is RISC (Reduced instruction set computer). Naturally, I produced nothing worthy of taking note of. I did however create a Hello World homebrew for the PSP, but I mean, that's about as cool as summer day in the Sahara desert.

As of this typing, I'm currently a Student at Texas Tech University, where I am pursuing a non accredited degree in Computer Science. My greatest accomplishment in my college career thus far, is getting a 'D' in Calculus III. I have the deepest respect for anyone who excels in Mathematics, as in my own opinion, Cal III was absolutely the most nonsensical thing in the world to me. Although, my professor did speak decent English, and her handwriting was legible. My Calculus II professor did not speak English, and his handwriting was absolute mayhem. My fondest recollection of his handwriting was how he drew a "pi" symbol. Essentially, it was a deformed stick figure, with a circular head, two arms, and two legs. Also, his examples were erroneous, by and large. The point is, it seems that the life lesson learned is the following: if you are seeking an education in the English language, it is in your best interest to avoid Texas Tech University. And also if you excell at math then you probably have a lightning scar on your forehead; or are a wielder of the flame of Anor.

But I digress. Come to think of it, I hate the word "digress". Anyway, some of you may recall that the enigmatic Sherlock Holmes had something he called a "mind palace". He would go to his mind palace when he was trying to remember some obscure detail. Well, I made the worst toothpick bridge of my fifth grade class, so I wouldn't dare endeavor to create something so grand. Instead, my intent is to use this place as my mind...lean-to. Sometimes I have to figure something out and it takes a while. Sometimes, I forget what I found out and need the knowledge again, but am unable to recall it. For example, I recently switched the mouse scroll on my windows I have installed on my MacBook, and now I can't remember how I did it. There is some program you can run that is almost like a gui for RegEdit, and that's how I did it. That's all I got. SO, in order to avoid frustration like this in the future, I plan on storing useful, or interesting information here--things that aren't just a google search away. The weird thing is I'm using a blog format, and I don't know jack diddley about it, but as I go on, I'm sure I'll learn more...probably. However, if the past is any indicator of the future then this will be the third to last post I ever make.

This is Cmdr Electrosheep, signing off.
