---
layout: post
title: I need a time machine
category: random
---

So I have officially determined that I need a way to slow down time or something. Kind of like that when that squirrel in Over the Hedge drinks the energy drink. Currently I am: [developing an android app](http://www.github.com/mkdegraw/malaware) for my Software Engineering class pretty much on my own. Yes it is a group project. Fun fact: one of my team members had previously never heard of github. And I thought I had a lot to learn...

Anyway, I spent this fine evening looking over my résumé (Haha it sucks, I'm over it) and decided that I wanted to make a page here on my blog with like a way cool interactive résumé using CSS wizardry or something. So I spent a while figuring out exactly what my options in this matter are. Come to find out, GitHub Pages uses Jekyll, which frankly, I don't even know how to describe Jekyll. It's not HTML and it's definitely not a programming language. Then of course I got distracted by other things, like looking into Bootstrap, Liquid, etc.

It was around this point that I came to the conclusion: freaking bag this. It seems like the web development world has about as much jargon as an advanced mathematics course. Which frankly is normally fine. However, I have an android app to develop for a class, I have Cal III homework due tomorrow, and I have a parser to write for my concepts of programming languages class. And I know you were wondering about this so I will come clean. I also have a test on Friday in computer architecture.

Oh, and another thing. The reason I was looking into getting a decent résumé in the first place is because I really, REALLY need to get an internship this coming summer. The problem is I feel like I know absolutely nothing. Like, I'm sitting here taking what seems to be rocket science classes, learning cool things like how to project one vector onto another (linear algebra) and taking a partial derivative by using implicit differentiation (Cal III). Which undeniably I can use to make myself seem like the smartest person in the room. But I can't help but wonder: How in the flip is this relevant knowledge?

Anyway, if anyone has a method to like, slow down time, or give you a nights rest in 10 minutes, hit me up. I got a blank check with your name on it.
