---
layout: post
title: MySQL on OSX
category: mysql
---

I have recently been learning about PHP, and MySQL, and I wanted to document the steps I had to go through to get up to speed. Here is how to get MySQL going on OSX:

1. Install homebrew
2. Install MySQL
3. Starting and stopping MySQL server
4. Connect to MySQL server
5. Add a user
6. Create database
7. Give user permissions
8. Reconnect to MySQL using new user
9. Create new table
10. Do whatever else you want

### Install homebrew ###
Easy. Open up your terminal and type

~~~ shell
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
~~~

### Install MySQL ###
Even easier. With homebrew installed type

~~~ shell
brew install mysql
~~~

### Start MySQL server ###
Also easy. From your terminal with MySQL installed type

~~~ shell
mysqld
~~~

The d means it will open as a daemon process. To shut down the server, type

~~~ shell
mysqladmin -u root shutdown
~~~

### Connect to MySQL server ###
From terminal...in fact, just assume everything is in the terminal from now on.

~~~ shell
mysql -u root
~~~

### Add user ###
Assuming all has gone well, you should now be in a mysql shell. If you see ```mysql>``` then you are.
There is some misinformation on the internet regarding this process. Don't be fooled. You shouldn't be opening up tables and adding crap to them. To add a user is simple. Let's set up a user named guest with password guest123.

~~~ mysql
create user 'guest'@'localhost' identified by 'guest123';
~~~

Incidentally, it's simple to remove users

~~~ mysql
drop user 'guest'@'localhost';
~~~


### Create database ###
Now, this user can't do much currently. In fact, guest can't do anything right now. We need to create a database.

~~~ mysql
create database example;
~~~

### Give user permissions ###
We need to add permission for guest to do stuff to the database, which we named example.

~~~ mysql
grant select, insert, update, delete, create, drop on example.* to 'guest'@'localhost' identified by 'guest123';
~~~

Finally, and this IS IMPORTANT, we need to flush privileges. Privileges are kinda like poop, and it needs to be flushed from time to time.

~~~ mysql
flush privileges;
~~~

### Reconnect to MySQL using new user ###
Now, it's time to see if we did everything right. Go ahead and exit the MySQL shell.

~~~ mysql
exit
~~~

Now let's try to login with our new user

~~~ shell
mysql -u guest -p
~~~

Now type in your password at the prompt: guest123
Alternatively, you can just include the password as an argument, although you will be yelled at, called various names, and be told that doing so is insecure.

~~~ shell
mysql -u guest -pguest123
~~~

NOTE: there is no space between p and the password

### Create new table ###
If all went well, you should now be logged back in. Let's check out what databases are available to us.

~~~ mysql
show databases;
~~~

Hopefully you see our example database. Let's use it.

~~~ mysql
use example;
~~~

Let's add a simple table.

~~~ mysql
create table stuff (id int not null primary key auto_increment);
~~~

This table doesn't do much, but who cares. Let's make sure it's actually there.

~~~ mysql
show tables;
~~~

### Do whatever else you want ###
There's lots of stuff you can do with MySQL, including getting the crap SQL injected out of you. Here are some good places to look:
 - [Basic Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/a-basic-mysql-tutorial)
 - [More in depth tutorial, but at times inaccurate](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/mysql/index.htm)
 - [Check out what users you have in your databases](http://alvinalexander.com/blog/post/mysql/show-users-i-ve-created-in-mysql-database)
 - And the list goes on and on
