---
layout: post
title: 私の日本語のクラス
category: random
---

This semester and last at Texas Tech I've been taking a Japanese class.
The first semester of it was brutal. Although we aren't very far into the
current semester, so far it's been much easier. Along those lines, I've made
an observation. It seems like I'm better at remembering not just Japanese now,
but everything. For instance, while researching my senior capstone project,
I came across the knowledge that the Snowden documents revealed that the NSA
has been experimenting with cryptanalysis involving Tau statistics to break
RSA encryption. Also, with the advent of quantum computing, an algorithm called
Shor's algorithm can be used to break RSA in polynomial time with quantum
technology. Now, this doesn't necessarily mean anything, but I was surprised
that I was able to remember that information. Suffice it to say, I've been
feeling lately that I can remember things better than I could last semester, and
I think it has to do with memorizing things for the last semester of Japanese.
Of course, it probably helps that I am now somewhat familiar with Japanese as
well. I think the brain, like any other muscle gets stronger the more you use
it. I remember feeling totally overwhelmed last semester memorizing somewhere on
the order of 50 things a week, but so far this semester it hasn't been that
difficult.

So yeah, I guess the point is, if you feel like you're having difficulty
remembering/memorizing things, learn a new language.
