---
layout: post
title: Set up Kali Linux on a thumb drive (for MacBooks)
category: cryptography
---

Greetings! With practically no introduction whatsoever, let's dive directly into
getting this up and running!

This guide has 6 parts, with some ramblings at the end

1. [Set up Kali on a thumb drive](#set-up-kali-on-a-thumb-drive)
2. [Set up encrypted persistence mode](#set-up-encrypted-persistence-mode)
3. [Install the wifi driver for MacBooks](#install-the-wifi-driver-for-macbooks)
4. [Fix the tilde key on MacBooks](#fix-the-tilde-key-on-macbooks)
5. [Set up an actual user account and disabling the root user](#set-up-an-actual-user-account-and-disabling-the-root-user)
6. [Optional fun stuff](#optional-fun-stuff)
    1. [Install webcam driver for MacBooks](#install-webcam-driver-for-macbooks)
    2. [Install Google Chrome](#install-google-chrome)
    3. [Improve power-saving features](#improve-power-saving-features)
    4. [Set up an adapter in monitor mode](#set-up-an-adapter-in-monitor-mode)
    5. [Configure vim](#configure-vim)
    6. [Update packages](#update-packages)
    7. [Show trash icon on desktop](#show-trash-icon-on-desktop)
    8. [Install VirtualBox and Metasploitable](#install-virtualbox-and-metasploitable)
7. [Sources/thoughts](#sources)


At the end, you will have a Kali installation set up on your thumb drive that
you can use as an alternate OS. Better yet, it will be a portable OS that you
can boot to from any machine. Also, it will have the proper drivers to use a
MacBook's wifi adapter. You can read what you WON'T have at the end of the post.

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
You can read more about the difference between a persistent live USB drive
and a full Linux install [here](https://www.maketecheasier.com/persistent-live-usb-vs-full-install-usb).
Basically, a live drive makes no assumptions about the hardware it is running on,
whereas a full Linux install generally customizes itself to the hardware it was
installed on. In short, the live drive can be run better on different hardware
profiles, but it takes longer to boot.
</div>

# Set up Kali on a thumb drive
First things first, you're gonna need a Kali ISO file. So, go ahead and [grab the
latest version](https://www.kali.org/downloads/), or [use the version I used](http://cdimage.kali.org/kali-2017.1/kali-linux-2017.1-amd64.iso).

Now, you're going to need to make a bootable USB drive out of that ISO. I used
[Rufus](https://rufus.akeo.ie/), which is what the folks over at Ubuntu
recommend, and I think it works great. I beleive Rufus is Windows-only, so feel
free to use what method you like to do this step.

One thing to note, is that the default username for Kali is `root` and the
default password is `toor`, root backwards.

Once you are finished with these instructions, you should be able to boot from
the thumb drive into Kali. If not, something isn't right.

# Set up encrypted persistence mode
First off, persistence mode enables Kali to keep files. Without it, every time
you boot Kali, it will be as though the OS has never been run before, which can
be a hassle, as we'll find out in the next section.

So, boot into Kali using your bootable thumb drive. You may notice in the boot
menu two persistence options. Those will not work without first setting up a
partition on the thumb drive, so simply selecting those options will accomplish
nothing. As such, it doesn't matter which option you choose, so long
as you are booted into Kali, because every option is the same for what we are
about to do.

Once you have Kali up, fire up a terminal. From here on, every time you see a
code block

    Like this

, that will indicate things you need to type in the terminal. Once you have the
terminal open, type

    fdisk -l

which will display a list of drives connected to your computer. Identify which
one is your thumb drive. In the event that you only have a single drive besides
the thumb drive connected to your computer (i.e. the hard disk your primary
OS boots from), this will most likely be /dev/sdb. fdisk will also show numbers
after sda, sdb, sdc, and so on, and those numbers indicate partitions on that
drive, which we don't care about for now. All we want is to find which letter
after "sd" identifies our thumb drive.

Did you find it? Good, let's continue

We'll use parted to create another partition on our thumb drive.

    parted /dev/sdb

Now we should see (parted) instead of root@kali:

    print free

will show us detailed information about the partitions on our thumb drive. What
we are looking for is where the last partition ends, and the end of our thumb
drive, which should be displayed for us now.

So, noting these two details, we are ready to create our partition. For me, the
last partition ended at 2794MB and the end of my thumb drive was 15.8GB.

    mkpart primary 2794MB 15.8GB

Now, we are done with parted. To close a running program in a terminal in unix,
use ctrl+c (do that now to end parted). We can use fdisk -l to verify that the
new partition was created, but it's just to make you feel warm and bubbly inside.

Now we need to create a file system for our partition. Even better, our partition
will be encrypted, because we're using Kali linux and the thought of our
colleagues pwning us reminds us of the time we were laughed off the stage in the
Shrek middle school musical. This next command assumes that sdb was the thumb
drive and we just made a third partition for it.

    cryptsetup --verbose --verify-passphrase luksFormat /dev/sdb3

This will prompt us for a password. You will use this password EVERY time you
boot Kali, so be prepared for that. This next one will give us access to the
partition so we can create a file system for it.

    cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/sdb3 my_usb

Okay, now let's make the filesystem

    mkfs.ext3 -L persistence /dev/mapper/my_usb

And then

    e2label /dev/mapper/my_usb persistence

Finally, we need to make a conf file, so we'll use four commands for that

    mkdir -p /mnt/my_usb
    mount /dev/mapper/my_usb /mnt/my_usb
    echo "/ union" > /mnt/my_usb/persistence.conf
    umount /dev/mapper/my_usb

Now, let's close the encrypted channel to our persistence partition

    cryptsetup luksClose /dev/mapper/my_usb

Okay, so now when we boot into Kali, we should be able to pick up where we left
off. All our programs that we install from here on should still be there. Bash
history will be there, etc.

So, to test, shut down Kali and reboot into the thumb drive. This time, be sure
to select "Live USB encrypted Persistence" from the boot menu. During the boot
process, you should see the following prompt: "Please unlock disk /dev/sdb3:",
at which point you enter your password when we set made the partition.

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
You set the password to unlock the partition, so it's not going to be **toor**
unless that's what you set it to.
</div>

# Install the wifi driver for MacBooks
Okay, so now we're getting into some juicy stuff here. The reason we desire
persistence is so we don't have to keep setting up all our drivers and crap like
that. I use Kali from a MacBook Air (Early 2014), and the wifi adapter will not
work right off the bat. This can be killer, but I used an ethernet to usb dongle
I got from Amazon for internet initially. You can also install these drivers
without internet from another thumb drive, but that's not what I did, and I
don't know how to do it. Assuming you've got internet somehow, it's not too hard
to set up the adapter, but one of the commands is straight gibberish. Fire up
the old terminal and let's get going.

    apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r | sed 's,[^-]*-[^-]*-..') broadcom-sta-dkms

That's the part you need internet for. It's important to note that you should
see

wl:  
Running module version sanity check.

towards the top part of your terminal window. If not, something went wrong. Now,
we need to disable crap drivers and enable the good one.

    modprobe -r b44 b43 b43legacy ssb brcmsmac

And then

    modprobe wl

Type

    iwconfig

and now you should see an entry for wlan0. But an even easier way to verify that
everything went well is that you'll be able to set up a wifi connection in Kali
now :)

# Fix the tilde key on MacBooks
To make it so the tilde key doesn't output angle brackets, fire up your terminal.

    sudo -i

will open up a terminal as the root user.

    crontab -e

will open up the root user's crontab file. Add `@reboot echo 0 > /sys/module/hid_apple/parameters/iso_layout`
to the end, then save changes, and exit the text editor. You should see
`crontab: installing new crontab` if everything went right. Restart the machine
to confirm that the tilde key is now functioning as expected.

# Set up an actual user account and disabling the root user
Okay, so now let's not use the root user to log in. First, we'll create a user
profile. We don't need to use the terminal for this part! Click the down arrow
at the top-right corner of the screen, click root, and then click account
settings. Click the Add User... button.

MAKE SURE YOU ARE MAKING YOURSELF AN ADMINISTRATOR, because we're going to be
disabling root. Type your username in the Full Name and Username fields (the
full name part doesn't matter at all, really), and then give yourself a password.

<div class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">
BE SURE YOU MADE YOURSELF AN ADMINISTRATOR!!!!
</div>

When you're done, click Add. Now you have another user. However, you'll soon
realize (if you don't follow the next instructions) that Kali couldn't care less
about this new user. It automatically logs you in on boot, and if you log out of
root, it just kills the desktop environment. So, we need to change a file. I use
the VIM file editor, but leafpad is more user-friendly.

    leafpad /etc/gdm3/daemon.conf

Now, with the leafpad editor open, comment out the following lines by adding a
"#" at the beginning of the line.

AutomaticLoginEnable=true
AutomaticLogin=root
TimedLoginEnable=true
TimedLogin=root
TimedLoginDelay=5

Next, disable root login by changing

AllowRoot = true

to

AllowRoot = false

Make sure you save your changes.

Finally, set up a cronjob that will disable root user login.

    sudo -i

    crontab -e

Add the following to the end: `@reboot passwd -l root`

<div class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">
If you didn't give yourself admin rights, you won't be able to access anything
that requires these privileges at all anymore, which pretty much means you need
to restart everything from the very beginning.
</div>

Now, I recommend restarting the machine and rebooting into Kali at this point.

You'll know you did these instructions correctly if:

Kali makes you login at boot.
You can't log in with the root account.
You can log out without killing the desktop environment.
You can use Google Chrome (assuming you install it, which we'll discuss in the
next section).

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
Because we are no longer using the root account, several of Kali's programs need
to be run with sudo now. If you don't like that, you can always log into a root
terminal with `sudo -i`
</div>

# Optional fun stuff

## Install webcam driver for MacBooks
### This section has not been tested. Ignore this for now.
Who really gives a flip about the stupid webcam? (Just use MacOS to skype your
internet girlfriend already...) Let's set it up anyway.

Let's clone the repo onto the desktop

    cd ~/Desktop
    git clone https://github.com/patjak/bcwc_pcie.git

Install dependencies

    sudo apt-get install linux-headers


## Install Google Chrome
Let's install everyone's favorite web browser! Though Firefox ESR and Firefox
Development edition will probably be more useful to someone using Kali, it's
always good to have Chrome!

Download the Debian/Ubuntu version of Chrome. Once you have it, the big question
is, how do you use a .deb file?

    dpkg -i PATH_TO_SOME_.DEB_FILE

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
There might be some other things to take care of at this point, but the
above command should get you started in the right direction.
</div>

If you do this without creating a non-root user, Chrome will whine and complain.
You can use Chrome as root, and odds are you won't run into trouble. The concern
is, if someone hijacks your Chrome browser, they have access to the root user.
You may think there is no difference between root and another user with admin
privileges, but you'd be 100% wrong.

## Improve power-saving features
[Adpated from here](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookAir6-2/Trusty)  
One of the unfortunate realities of using Linux on a MacBook is the drastically
reduced battery life. Fortunately, we have a couple tricks up our sleeve. We're
going to install `powertop` and `tlp`.

    sudo apt-get install powertop

Once that's installed execute it

    sudo powertop

Use the tab key to go to Tunables. Once there use the arrow keys and hit enter
to toggle all the bad options to good.

Next up is tlp

    sudo apt-get install tlp
    sudo apt-get install tlp-rdw

Once it is installed, open up /etc/default/tlp in a text editor. Make sure that
you see the following lines and values, making any changes necessary:

`DISK_IDLE_SECS_ON_AC=0`  
`DISK_IDLE_SECS_ON_BAT=1`  
`MAX_LOST_WORK_SECS_ON_BAT=15`  
`DISK_APM_LEVEL_ON_BAT="1 1"`  (irrelevant if you have an SSD)  
`RUNTIME_PM_ALL=1`  
`RESTORE_DEVICE_STATE_ON_STARTUP=1`

Now start it

    sudo tlp start

Then check the status

    sudo tlp-stat -s

You may need to start services when you run `tlp-stat -s`. If so, it will tell
you how to start the services, and you should start them.

Put [this script](/public/files/macbook) in /etc/pm/power.d/

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
I host the script here, but I did not write it. I originally downloaded it from
this location: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookAir6-2/Trusty?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=99macbookair6](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookAir6-2/Trusty?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=99macbookair6)
</div>

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
This script is specifically for my model of MacBook Air, but I believe it should
work on any MacBook.
</div>

Now, we need to execute the script on powerup. First, make it so the root user
owns it

    sudo chown root:root /etc/pm/power.d/macbook

Then, give the root user executable permissions

    sudo chmod o+x /etc/pm/power.d/macbook

Finally, execute the script on reboot

    sudo -i
    crontab -e

Add the lines to the end  
`@reboot /etc/pm/power.d/macbook`

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
It seems like the above power-saving features don't extend the operational life
of the MacBook to a comparable level with MacOS, but, when the machine is in
sleep mode, it seems to consume almost no battery, similar to MacOS.
</div>

## Set up an adapter in monitor mode
This one's going to be a tad wonky. I'm convinced there **must** be some better
way to go about this, but this worked for me. First confirm that you are a member
of the `sudo` group

    groups

Your group will be listed after your username. Then we are going to give the
sudo group write access to a certain file.

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
We will use a cronjob for persistence.
</div>

    sudo -i

    crontab -e

Append `@reboot chmod g+w /proc/brcm_monitor0` to the end of the file.

Now, we're going to have bash write to this file every time you open a terminal.
Append the following line to `~/.bashrc`

`echo 1 > /proc/brcm_monitor0`

This will enable a device called `prism0` which we can use with programs that
require a wifi adapter in monitor mode, e.g. `airodump-ng prism0`

Strangely, I noticed that prism0 was gone after I left the computer idle for a
bit.

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
I have experienced anomalous behavior with prism0. Sometimes, I picked up my
5GHz network, other times I picked up my 2.4Ghz network. I never picked up both
networks at the same time. I am unsure as to why this is, but I suspect it has
something to do with the drivers, and I am especially skeptical of prism0.
Nonetheless, I was able to use monitor mode.
</div>

I believe the broadcom adapter should be able to change states, but I am not a
driver person. I will continue to look into this and report back any further
details.

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
I was not able to successfully force deauthentication with prism0.
</div>

## Configure vim
We want vim to display line numbers, so let's put the following in `~/.vimrc`

`set number`  
`syntax on`

## Update packages
Now, if you update your packages, it will actually retain the updates when you
restart the machine. I'm not going to walk you through this process. Do it,
don't do it, it's up to you!

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-warning" role="alert">
These commands will take a **LONG** time!!
</div>

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
    sudo apt autoremove

## Show Trash icon on desktop
If you're like me, you're constantly emptying the trash/recycle bin. It might be
a good idea to just disable the stupid thing and have deleted files just delete.
BUT, let's have Kali display the Trash on the desktop so we can get thrills from
emptying it.

Open the `dconf Editor` program. It will warn you not to be stupid, and agree to
not be stupid. Go to the following path `/org/gnome/nautilus/desktop`. Once
there, click on trash-icon-visible, and set it to `true`.

Next, immediately empty the trash and enjoy the satisfaction (I freed up almost
a gig, not sure what the heck was in there that was taking up that much space,
probably should have looked a little more carefully...)

## Install VirtualBox and MetaSploitable
~~This one is **super** optional. Running a VM and an OS off a thumb drive is
sketchy on a good day. Nevertheless, let's ignore what sense is telling us and
do it anyway!~~

I have to say, the VM in reality runs pretty well on the thumb drive (USB 3).

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-warning" role="alert">
Make sure you've [updated your packages](#update-packages)
</div>

    sudo apt-get install virtualbox

You're also going to need the image for virtualbox, which you can snag [here](https://sourceforge.net/projects/metasploitable/files/Metasploitable2/)
Make sure it's unzipped.

Okay, let's set it up!

Assuming it VirtualBox was installed correctly, it should be listed amongst your
normal programs, so fire it up!

Click `new` then `Expert Mode` use the following options:

- Name: Metasploitable
- Type: Linux
- Version: Other Linux (64-bit)
- Memory Size: 1024 MB
- Use an existing virtual hard disk file: `select the file from the unzipped metasploitable download`

You're going to need to access this VM through the network, so let's set that up.

From the VirtualBox main menu, go to `File`->`Preferences`
Then go to `Network` then `Host-only Networks`
From there, click the icon on the right with the plus sign on it, which should
create `vboxnet0`. Hit `OK`.

Now, we need to have our VM use it, so click on your VM (which was metasploitable
in our case) and then `Settings`. Click on `Network`. In `Adapter 1`, make sure
`Enbale Network Adapter` is checked, and then select `Host-only Adapter` from the
`Attached to` dropdown box. From the `Name` dropdown, select `vboxnet0`

Now, you can fire up the VM and login (using the credentials `user/user` or `msfadmin/msfadmin`).
If you type `ifconfig` you should see an IP that starts with 192.168. To test
the connection, you can use `ping ENTER_THE_IP_ADDRESS_FROM_THE_VM_HERE`.

From this point, we can continue on to the [Metasploitable tutorial](/cryptography/2017/07/23/metasploitable_tutorial.html).

# Sources
I got my instructions for this primarily from the following sources:

[https://docs.kali.org/downloading/kali-linux-live-usb-persistence](https://docs.kali.org/downloading/kali-linux-live-usb-persistence)
[https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/234859/how-to-create-a-partition-in-free-space-using-gnu-parted](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/234859/how-to-create-a-partition-in-free-space-using-gnu-parted)
[https://pentestmac.wordpress.com/2015/11/28/kali-linux-broadcom-wireless-on-macbook/](https://pentestmac.wordpress.com/2015/11/28/kali-linux-broadcom-wireless-on-macbook/)
[http://www.binarytides.com/auto-login-root-user-kali/](http://www.binarytides.com/auto-login-root-user-kali/)

# Asides
I spent quite a while figuring out exactly how to perform these steps. What I
have described is the best way to accomplish the task that I could find. In some
instances, I tried many things before settling on a solution that actually
worked.

I noticed that almost nothing about the OS itself was saved when using USB
persistence mode. For example, when changing the permissions of `/proc/brcm_monitor0`
it wasn't carried over to the next boot. So, I figured a decent way to accomplish
persistent OS changes was using crontab.

Regarding Kali updates, I don't think updating Kali through `Software` works.
However, I believe the command `sudo apt-get dist-upgrade` is equivalent and
works fine.

If you are aware of anything that could be done better, by all means, leave a
comment.

# Complaints
One major complaint of mine is that the wl driver seems to run into errors
sometimes, leaving me without use of the wifi adapter until I restart the
machine. I am not sure at what point this started happening.

Another problem is the atrocious battery life compared to MacOS (which is
expected). I have messed with TLP and powertop, but the battery life still isn't
even in the realm of MacOS.

Because we use an encrypted filesystem (on a thumb drive, no less), don't expect
responsiveness to be extreme. I was once installing something from the terminal
and copying something over from a thumb drive, and responsiveness was
non-existant for anything not already loaded into RAM. So yeah, if you want a
snappy OS, forget about putting it on a thumb drive :)

# Updates
- [ ] I'm not sure if TLP gets started correctly at reboot. I need to confirm this.
- [x] ~~I plan on updating this as soon as I confirm that you can set the wifi adapter
to monitor mode, a critical component of using some of Kali's tools.~~  
*I have added instructions on how to get a persistent monitor mode set up*
