---
layout: post
title: Set up Red Hat Enterprise Linux on a thumb drive (for MacBooks)
category: linux
---

Fair warning: I'm not going to go into excruciating detail about this process
because  
A) I don't think anyone reading this will benefit from it  
B) If it turns out A is false, leave me a comment and if I ever see it, I'll
update the post with more detail.

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
The RHEL package manager is *yum*  
RHEL packages are *.rpm* files, as opposed to *.deb* files for Debian
</div>

With Kali Linux recently installed, let's also set up Red Hat on a thumb drive.
<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">
I don't believe you can easily set up a RHEL live drive like you could with Kali.
The biggest thing to consider is that RHEL will be configured specifically to
the hardware that it was installed on. However, I was able to get it to boot on
three different machines, including one with a Ryzen processor.
</div>

1. [Get the RHEL install iso](#get-the-rhel-install-iso)
2. [Install RHEL to a thumb drive](#install-rhel-to-a-thumb-drive)
3. [Set up WiFi for the piece of crap Broadcom BCM4600](#set-up-wifi-for-the-piece-of-crap-broadcom-bcm4600)
4. [Set up RHEL a subscription](#set-up-rhel-subscription)
5. [Fix the tilde key on MacBooks](#fix-the-tilde-key-on-macbooks)
6. [Optional fun stuff](#optional-fun-stuff)
    1. [Install Google Chrome](#install-google-chrome)
    2. [Set up a repo that doesn't suck](#set-up-a-repo-that-doesn't-suck)
    3. [Configure vim](#configure-vim)
    4. [Update packages](#update-packages)
7. [Sources/thoughts](#sources)

# Get the RHEL install iso
To do that, you need a Red Hat account. Sorry, I hate making accounts too. Once
you have your account, you should be able to [download Red Hat Enterprise Linux](https://developers.redhat.com/download-manager/content/origin/files/sha256/43/431a58c8c0351803a608ffa56948c5a7861876f78ccbe784724dd8c987ff7000/rhel-server-7.4-x86_64-dvd.iso). Just in case that
direct download link doesn't work (by the way, you should never trust direct links
like that anyway, smh) you should be able to access the right stuff [here](https://developers.redhat.com/).

# Install RHEL to a thumb drive
For me, I wanted to set up a 32Gb thumb drive to have 8Gb available for use as
an exFat drive, and the rest to be used by Red Hat. Unfortunately, Disk Utility
for Macs is the worst disk utility I've ever seen and Windows' disk management
program isn't much better. You can use Windows' *diskpart* utility from the
command line to *clean* the drive, at which point you should then be able to use
disk management to create an 8Gb simple volume formatted to exFat. Once that's
done, you can boot up the Red Hat install USB/Disk and Red Hat should be able to
make use of the remaining space on the drive to install itself. Be sure to set
the correct timezone and I always like to encrypt my stuff. Also, if you are
hoping for a GUI, then you need to be sure to select that as well as any of the
optional crap you want/need (I wanted the security and developer tools). Once
the install is going, you can set an admin password as well as create a user
for yourself. The install will take a while.

# Set up WiFi for the piece of crap Broadcom BCM4600
<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">
As of kernel 7.4, the wl driver causes a kernel panic on startup. Therefore,
following any of the following instructions will most likely require you to
undo what you did by booting into single user mode.
</div>
Have you gotten this working? Mind telling me how?

You can install wl-kmod by [following the instructions from ElRepo](https://elrepo.org/tiki/wl-kmod),
however, good luck getting the adapter to actually connect to anything.

# Set up a RHEL subscription
<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
Red Hat keeps a pretty tight lid on their subscriptions. They have a built-in
tool called 'Red Hat Subscription Manager', but if you go to the [Systems page](https://access.redhat.com/management/systems)
on their website, you can find more detailed information, particularly if you
encounter any issues while setting the subscriptions up.
</div>
After the install, you'll want to set up some kind of subscription for yourself.
This gives you access to the basic RHEL repo so you can update your packages.
However, you'll soon realize that Enteprise Linux has terrible repos for some
reason or the other (I'm talking both CentOS and RHEL here). We'll set up some
decent repos later.

# Fix the tilde key on MacBooks
The best way to do this is by setting up a cron job I think. So, get a root
terminal going and use `crontab -e` to set up a job that will fix the tilde key
at reboot `@reboot echo 0 > /sys/module/hid_apple/parameters/iso_layout`
Alternatively, some dude set up a repo that you can use to configure this. However,
for some reason he wanted to mess with the function keys, which I didn't care for.

[You can find that crap here](https://atodorov.org/blog/2015/04/29/rhel-7-repository-for-macbook-air/)

# Optional fun stuff

## Install Google Chrome
~~This one is actually easy. Just go to the chrome download page and download the
.rpm file. Once downloaded, double click it and install the app through the
*software* program.~~

This didn't seem to work on my third install. It's still simple though. Download
the rpm package then install it `yum install google-chrome-stable_current_x86_64.rpm`

## Set up a repo that doesn't suck
I like [ElRepo](https://elrepo.org/tiki/tiki-index.php) and [EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL/FAQ#How_can_I_install_the_packages_from_the_EPEL_software_repository.3F)

## Configure vim
This should be fairly basic after your first two or three unixy system installs.
`vim ~/.vimrc`, add:

    set number
    syntax on

## Update packages
`yum update` Takes years. Don't interrupt it, or you'll be sorry!

# Sources/thoughts
I have lots of sources. Maybe I'll put them here after I've got the process nailed
down.
I really hate Broadcom. Be sure to send them some fanmail, thanking them for their
proprietary, closed-source drivers!
